README.rst, before:

*bw-export* — Export *Avendesora* Accounts to *BitWarden*
=========================================================

.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/bw-export/month
    :target: https://pepy.tech/project/bw-export

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/bw-export.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/bw-export

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/bw-export.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/bw-export


| Authors: Ken Kundert
| Version: 0.0.0
| Released: 2022-06-19
| Documentation: NurdleTech_.
| Please post all questions, suggestions, and bug reports to: `Github issues`_.
|

This utility allows you to export select accounts from Avendesora_ in a form 
that can easily be imported into BitWarden_.  *Avendesora* is a very flexible 
and secure password manager for the Linux command line and *BitWarden* in an 
open source commercial password manager supported on a wide variety of 
platforms, such as *Windows*, *Mac*, *IOS*, and *Android*.

This package provides two programs.  *bw-csv-export* is the simpler of the two, 
it is less capable.  *bw-json-export* supports more *BitWarden’s* features and 
generally preferred.  Both allow you to export select accounts from *Avendesora* 
into an interchange file that can be uploaded to the `BitWarden Web Portal`_, 
and from there the information syncs with all of your *BitWarden*-linked 
devices.  If you are not comfortable sharing your account information with 
*BitWarden*, you can install and run your own `BitWarden server`_.


Installation
------------

Install with::

    pip install --user bw-export

It will install both *bw-csv-export* and *bw-json-export* to ~/.local/bin.

You can find the latest version of the source code on
Github_.


bw-json-export
--------------

Generates a JSON file (*bw.json*) suitable for uploading to a *BitWarden Vault*.

Usage:
    bw-json-export

Only those accounts with “bitwarden” field are exported. The “bitwarden” field 
is expected to be a dictionary that contain the fields to be exported.
The value may be a simple string or it may be a script, and in some cases it may 
be a dictionary.

A typical example is::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "The Economist",
        urls = "{urls}",
        username = "{email}",
        password = "{passcode}",
    )

You can add arbitrary fields using *fields* as represented by a NestedText_ 
dictionary::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "Visa",
        fields = """
            holder: {name}
            ccn: {ccn}
            exp: {exp}
            cvv: {cvv}
            report: {support}
        """,
    )

You can also use a *Python* dictionary::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "Visa",
        fields = dict(
            holder = "{name}",
            ccn = "{ccn}",
            exp = "{exp}",
            cvv = "{cvv}",
            report = "{support}",
        ),
    )

There are four types of entries supported, and they accept the following 
fields::

    1: login
        name
        username
        password
        totp
        urls
        fields
        notes

    2: secureNote
        name
        notes
        fields

    3: card
        name
        brand
        holder
        ccn
        exp
        cvv
        fields
        notes

    4: identity
        name
        title
        names
        street
        city
        state
        zip
        country
        email
        phone
        company
        ssn
        username
        passport
        license
        fields
        notes

Running *bw-json-export* creates the file: *bw.json*.

Once created, it can be imported from the *BitWarden* website 
(vault.bitwarden.com).  When importing, use “Bitwarden (json)” as the file 
format.

By policy, *BitWarden* create duplicates of any imported accounts if they were 
previously imported.  As such, you should delete existing accounts before 
re-importing to avoid duplicate accounts.  A convenient way of doing so would be 
to partition your BitWarden cards into two folders, one dedicated to accounts 
imported from Avendesora and one dedicated you your BitWarden native cards.  
Before importing, first delete all the entries in the “Avendesora” folder, and 
then delete the folder itself  by clicking on it, a pencil icon will appear, 
click on that, and then click on the trash can icon.  Importing will then create 
a new “Avendesora” folder.

After first run, a settings file is created in 
*~/.config/bw-json-export/settings.nt*.  You can use it to control the name of 
the “Avendesora” folder.  The default value is “[Avendesora-]YYMMDD”.  You can 
eliminate the date using “[Avendesora]” or you can delete the folder completely.  
The characters within the brackets is output verbatim and the remaining 
characters are interpreted as an `Arrow format`_.

After importing your *bw.json* file you must delete it as it contains your 
secrets in plain text.


bw-csv-export
-------------

Generates a CSV file (*bw.csv*) suitable for uploading to a *BitWarden Vault*.

Usage::

    bw-csv-export

Only those accounts with “bitwarden” field are exported. The “bitwarden” field 
is expected to be a dictionary that may contain the following fields: *folder*, 
*type*, *name*, *notes*, *fields*, *url*, *username*, *password*, and *totp*.  
If not given, they are left blank. Each value may be a simple string or a script.

A typical example is::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "The Economist",
        login_uri = "{urls}",
        login_username = "{email}",
        login_password = "{passcode}",
    )

You can add arbitrary name-value pairs using *fields*::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "Visa",
        fields = """
            holder: {name}
            number: {ccn}
            exp: {exp}
            cvv: {cvv}
            report: {support}
        """,
    )

Running *bw-csv-export* creates the file: *bw.csv*.

Once created, it can be imported from the *BitWarden Vault* website 
(vault.bitwarden.com).  When importing, use “Bitwarden (csv)” as the file 
format.

By policy, *BitWarden* create duplicates of any imported accounts if they were 
previously imported.  As such, you should delete existing accounts before 
re-importing to avoid duplicate accounts.  A convenient way of doing so would be 
to partition your BitWarden entries into two folders, one dedicated to accounts 
imported from Avendesora and one dedicated you your BitWarden native entries.  
Normally you would keep the “No Folder” folder empty.  BitWarden places freshly 
imported accounts into “No Folder”.  You should then delete any existing 
accounts in the “Avendesora” folder and move all the new accounts in “No Folder” 
to the “Avendesora” folder.

You must then delete the *bw.csv* file as it can include your secrets in plain 
text.


Releases
--------
**Latest Development Version**:
    | Version: 0.0.0
    | Released: 2022-06-19


0.0 (2022-05-19)
    - initial release


.. _NurdleTech: http://nurdletech.com/linux-utilities/bw-export
.. _Github: https://github.com/KenKundert/bw-export
.. _Github issues: https://github.com/KenKundert/bw-export/issues
.. _Avendesora: https://avendesora.readthedocs.io
.. _BitWarden: https://bitwarden.com
.. _BitWarden Web Portal: https://vault.bitwarden.com
.. _BitWarden server: https://bitwarden.com/help/install-on-premise-linux
.. _NestedText: https://nestedtext.org
.. _Arrow format: https://arrow.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html#supported-tokens

Commit message:

Document how to enable autofill for android apps

README.rst, after:

*bw-export* — Export *Avendesora* Accounts to *BitWarden*
=========================================================

.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/bw-export/month
    :target: https://pepy.tech/project/bw-export

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/bw-export.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/bw-export

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/bw-export.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/bw-export


| Authors: Ken Kundert
| Version: 0.0.0
| Released: 2022-06-19
| Documentation: NurdleTech_.
| Please post all questions, suggestions, and bug reports to: `Github issues`_.
|

This utility allows you to export select accounts from Avendesora_ in a form 
that can easily be imported into BitWarden_.  *Avendesora* is a very flexible 
and secure password manager for the Linux command line and *BitWarden* in an 
open source commercial password manager supported on a wide variety of 
platforms, such as *Windows*, *Mac*, *IOS*, and *Android*.

This package provides two programs.  *bw-csv-export* is the simpler of the two, 
it is less capable.  *bw-json-export* supports more *BitWarden’s* features and 
generally preferred.  Both allow you to export select accounts from *Avendesora* 
into an interchange file that can be uploaded to the `BitWarden Web Portal`_, 
and from there the information syncs with all of your *BitWarden*-linked 
devices.  If you are not comfortable sharing your account information with 
*BitWarden*, you can install and run your own `BitWarden server`_.


Installation
------------

Install with::

    pip install --user bw-export

It will install both *bw-csv-export* and *bw-json-export* to ~/.local/bin.

You can find the latest version of the source code on
Github_.


bw-json-export
--------------

Generates a JSON file (*bw.json*) suitable for uploading to a *BitWarden Vault*.

Usage:
    bw-json-export

Only those accounts with “bitwarden” field are exported. The “bitwarden” field 
is expected to be a dictionary that contain the fields to be exported.
The value may be a simple string or it may be a script, and in some cases it may 
be a dictionary.

A typical example is::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "The Economist",
        urls = "{urls}",
        username = "{email}",
        password = "{passcode}",
    )

You can add arbitrary fields using *fields* as represented by a NestedText_ 
dictionary::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "Visa",
        fields = """
            holder: {name}
            ccn: {ccn}
            exp: {exp}
            cvv: {cvv}
            report: {support}
        """,
    )

You can also use a *Python* dictionary::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "Visa",
        fields = dict(
            holder = "{name}",
            ccn = "{ccn}",
            exp = "{exp}",
            cvv = "{cvv}",
            report = "{support}",
        ),
    )

Documentation on the fields can be found in the `BitWarden API Documentation`_.
There are four types of entries supported, and they accept the following 
fields::

    1: login
        name
        username
        password
        totp
        urls
        fields
        notes

    2: secureNote
        name
        notes
        fields

    3: card
        name
        brand
        holder
        ccn
        exp
        cvv
        fields
        notes

    4: identity
        name
        title
        names
        street
        city
        state
        zip
        country
        email
        phone
        company
        ssn
        username
        passport
        license
        fields
        notes

Running *bw-json-export* creates the file: *bw.json*.

Once created, it can be imported from the *BitWarden* website 
(vault.bitwarden.com).  When importing, use “Bitwarden (json)” as the file 
format.

By policy, *BitWarden* create duplicates of any imported accounts if they were 
previously imported.  As such, you should will need to delete the existing 
accounts.  A convenient way of doing so would be to partition your BitWarden 
cards into two folders, one dedicated to accounts imported from Avendesora and 
one dedicated you your BitWarden native cards.  Before importing, first delete 
all the entries in the “Avendesora” folder, and then delete the folder itself  
by clicking on it, a pencil icon will appear, click on that, and then click on 
the trash can icon.  Importing will then create a new “Avendesora” folder.

After first run, a settings file is created in 
*~/.config/bw-json-export/settings.nt*.  You can use it to control the name of 
the “Avendesora” folder.  The default value is “[Avendesora-]YYMMDD”.  You can 
eliminate the date using “[Avendesora]” or you can delete the folder completely.  
The characters within the brackets is output verbatim and the remaining 
characters are interpreted as an `Arrow format`_.

After importing your *bw.json* file you must delete it as it contains your 
secrets in plain text.

You can use Bitwarden to autofill fields on Android.  To do so you must first 
enable configure Android to use Bitwarden for *AutoFill* 
(Settings→Passwords→Autofill).  Then when you select a field that matches an 
account you have configured in Bitwarden, you will see button that allows you to 
autofill the value.  The first time you push it you will likely get an error 
message saying the entry cannot be found.  It will give you the name it is 
expecting.  For example, for the NordVPN app it needs ‘com.nordvpn.android’.  
You need to add this to your list of urls.  For example::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = 'login',
        name = 'NordVPN',
        login_uri = '{urls} androidapp://com.nordvpn.android',
        login_username = '{email}',
        login_password = '{passcode}',
    )

bw-csv-export
-------------

Generates a CSV file (*bw.csv*) suitable for uploading to a *BitWarden Vault*.

Usage::

    bw-csv-export

Only those accounts with “bitwarden” field are exported. The “bitwarden” field 
is expected to be a dictionary that may contain the following fields: *folder*, 
*type*, *name*, *notes*, *fields*, *url*, *username*, *password*, and *totp*.  
If not given, they are left blank. Each value may be a simple string or a script.

A typical example is::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "The Economist",
        login_uri = "{urls}",
        login_username = "{email}",
        login_password = "{passcode}",
    )

You can add arbitrary name-value pairs using *fields*::

    bitwarden = dict(
        type = "login",
        name = "Visa",
        fields = """
            holder: {name}
            number: {ccn}
            exp: {exp}
            cvv: {cvv}
            report: {support}
        """,
    )

Running *bw-csv-export* creates the file: *bw.csv*.

Once created, it can be imported from the *BitWarden Vault* website 
(vault.bitwarden.com).  When importing, use “Bitwarden (csv)” as the file 
format.

By policy, *BitWarden* create duplicates of any imported accounts if they were 
previously imported.  As such, you should delete existing accounts before 
re-importing to avoid duplicate accounts.  A convenient way of doing so would be 
to partition your BitWarden entries into two folders, one dedicated to accounts 
imported from Avendesora and one dedicated you your BitWarden native entries.  
Normally you would keep the “No Folder” folder empty.  BitWarden places freshly 
imported accounts into “No Folder”.  You should then delete any existing 
accounts in the “Avendesora” folder and move all the new accounts in “No Folder” 
to the “Avendesora” folder.

You must then delete the *bw.csv* file as it can include your secrets in plain 
text.


Releases
--------
**Latest Development Version**:
    | Version: 0.0.0
    | Released: 2022-06-19


0.0 (2022-05-19)
    - initial release


.. _NurdleTech: http://nurdletech.com/linux-utilities/bw-export
.. _Github: https://github.com/KenKundert/bw-export
.. _Github issues: https://github.com/KenKundert/bw-export/issues
.. _Avendesora: https://avendesora.readthedocs.io
.. _BitWarden: https://bitwarden.com
.. _BitWarden Web Portal: https://vault.bitwarden.com
.. _BitWarden server: https://bitwarden.com/help/install-on-premise-linux
.. _BitWarden API Documentation: https://bitwarden.com/help/public-api/
.. _NestedText: https://nestedtext.org
.. _Arrow format: https://arrow.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html#supported-tokens
